
# What is this branch about?
This branch (function_result_lifetime) is concerned about SEXP lifetime.
As part of the [cmdline.arguments](https://github.com/Bijaelo/cmdline.arguments) package the result of an R function call (performed from a C++ class) is to stored until the user requires the result. This is a simple procedure, performed by a call to [`do_docall`](https://github.com/wch/r-source/blob/b74babdd236b9c626f387d59ae5f5d1c965d9e68/src/main/coerce.c#L2659) in the internal API, to build and evaluate the function call. While it is commonly described that SEXP expessions needs to be protected (performed automatically by **Rcpp/protection/Shield.h** and subtypes in Rcpp) the result from [eval](https://github.com/wch/r-source/blob/b74babdd236b9c626f387d59ae5f5d1c965d9e68/src/main/eval.c#L641) is by itself not protected when returned. Common sense lets us expect that we have to "protect" the result, but one has to be certain this is true. One option would be to store the SEXP as a class similar to **Rcpp/protection/Shield.h**, but this requires a quick redefinition of the class to not have constant protection. The question is whether this would be accepted by the R-stack of an error about difference in protection level would occur.

This repository seeks to uncover these mysteries and find and answer as to how one should "correctly" store the result from a function call as SEXP. One important note is that this search is somewhat defunct, as we could simply cast the result to an `Rcpp::RObject` and store it as such. But this would come at the cost of some minor performance loss. So here I am trying to learn how to avoid this.
